Combined 
Problem Statement 
The aim is to allocate medical and transportation resources in a way which minimizes the total economic cost of earthquakes. 
 It is divided into pre-disaster allocation and the post disaster deprivation and transport cost as shown in Fig. 1.
The sections correspond to the preparedness and response phase of disaster management respectively. 
The response phase involves a three-tier network of the vehicle gathering points, the hospitals, and the disaster areas. 
 Upon disaster, transportation vehicles would gather at designated points, proceed to hospitals to collect medical resources, 
and finally travel to disaster areas, shown in Fig. 2. There are two types of vehicles, trucks and drones, whereas drones are less affect by earthquakes. 
With the situation defined, the mathematical model can be formulated, and simulation optimization conducted.

Mathematical Model
To solve the problem, a two-stage mathematical model is used which explores the design of each constraint.
 
(sets, variables, and parameters)

The sets represent locations, resource types, and scenarios, with each scenario having a corresponding set of random 
variables. The decision variables are opening gathering points and allocating resources. Second stage variables relate to the optimal scenario solution, while 
parameters involve resource costs and capacities. 

(stage one)
Stage one of the model is the preparation phase. 
The objective expression (1) is the cost of resources and the result of stage two. Constraints (2), (3), and (4) are the 
capacities of resources stored at gathering points and hospitals. 

(stage two)

Stage two relates to the response phase, so the random variables are now known. 
The objective (7) is minimizing the total deprivation and transport costs with the available resources. 
Constraints (8) and (9) restrict the resources based on stage one. Constraint (10) is the capacity of each arc from hospital to disaster area. 
The more the vehicles are allocated to each arc the more the capacity increases and the opposite happens for quality of the road network condition, the worse the less. 
 Purpose of this stage is to minimize the total economic cost for given scenario.

Case Study
An implementation of this is done on Tainan, Taiwan, and by simulation optimization, we can generate an allocation minimizing the total economic cost. 
 Here, two types of medical resources are examined, antibiotics and bandages, and two types of transportation vehicles, trucks and drones. 
 Gathering points are areas with enough space to accommodate vehicles post disaster. Medical resources are stockpiled at hospitals as they have the expertise.
Simulation optimization is done with heuristic methods using the genetic algorithm. Of the scenarios, values for travel time and victim count are generated through the TERIA system from NCDR. 
The number of scenarios required are determined through the Optimal Computing Budget Allocation (OCBA) algorithm, which reduces the total computation time. 
Results are in picture 3, as it shows the amounts of vehicles allocated. The gathering points further from each other and more remote tend to require more.

Conclusion
Optimizing the allocation of both medical and transportation resource in preparation of earthquakes is shown possible and defined as a two-stage stochastic model. 
Applying simulation optimization methods can solve it, and here it is done on Tainan, Taiwan. 
The possibility of novel transportation methods such as drones are recognized and be applied to the future of disaster management. 
This method can consider other vehicles, such as boats or rafts in case of floods as drones may not be viable.
 It can also encompass more by considering the routing problem and have the weather condition effect drone travel time. 
 May this research bring better results to disaster management in the future.























 
